welcome to movie summary today i'm going
to explain science fiction thriller film
edge of tomorrow
in 2015 aliens called mimics arrive in
germany via an asteroid and swiftly
conquer most of continental europe
by 2020 the united defense force a
global military
alliance established to combat the alien
threat finally achieves a victory over
the mimics at verdun using newly
developed mech suits
in britain the udf plans a major
invasion of france
and general brigham orders recently
attached u.s major william cage of the
media relations department to cover it
gage having no combat experience objects
and threatens to blame brigham if the
invasion fails
brigham has cage arrested and sent to
heathrow airport now a military base
cage awakens to find brigham has demoted
him to a private and assigned him to
master sergeant farrell and the misfit j
squad
who do not take kindly to cage the
landing in france is a colossal failure
farrell and jay's quad are quickly
killed cage uses a claim or mine to kill
an unusually large blue mimic
but is mortally wounded by the explosion
and covered in the alien's blood
cage jolts awake to find himself back at
heathrow
peeting itself he's strapped into the
armor then into the plane
and they're off to invade they take off
and are hit by another missile
landing on the beach where bill stumbles
his way across the battlefield before
being killed and resurfacing at the
recruitment camp no one believes bill
when he tries to alert farrell and the j
squad about the
problem bill dies a couple more times
before resurrecting
but vita notices that he gets better at
killing the mimics she instructs bill to
find her when he awakens
but they both perish before she can
continue cadre awakens and locates veda
who takes him to dr carter
an expert in mimic biology he explains
that the mimics are a super organism in
which the omega controls the cerebrum
while the alphas behave as the ganglia
through which the omega controls
ordinary mimics
if an alpha is terminated the omega
resets the day and adjusts its tactics
until the battle is won
cage inadvertently hijacked their
ability to reset time through his
exposure to an alpha's blood
vita had this ability at verdun using it
to win the battle before she was wounded
and received a blood transfusion
losing the power she tells cage to
locate and kill the omega to end the
alien invasion
bill is then trained to fight on the
training field by vita
vito warns bill that if he is hurt he
must die quickly because if he loses a
lot of blood and receives a transfusion
he would lose his capacity to reset time
bill trains with vita and dies over and
over until he sees the omega's location
in a vision
the couple completes their training and
prepares for war after his first vision
appears bill and vita make every effort
to survive the invasion
with bill attempting to figure out
what's going on and reorienting vita
whenever they meet
the two try their utmost across the
shore but bill's patience is wearing
thin as he witnesses vida's death over
and over again
bill finds himself caring more and more
for vita each time he relives the day
after several more efforts
carter locates the omega in germany but
a disgruntled bill informs him that no
matter what they do
they would not be able to survive the
initial beach landing
after making it over the shore to a
trailer park where they acquire a
vehicle and drive as far as they can on
land
bill tells vita that they eventually
converse and get to know each other
better bill tells vita about her life
that she shared with him
but she shrugs as they stumble into an
old farmhouse and discover a small
helicopter
bill demands that they stay for the
night despite vida's desire to go to
germany
bill brings them coffee but vita notices
that he already knows her coffee
preferences
bill admits they've gone through this
before but he won't go any further he
couldn't bear the thought of killing the
omega
since he loves her and she always dies
before they can take off in the
helicopter
vita's death would be irreversible if
the omega was killed
bill returns to the camp eager to finish
the fight
vida launches the chopper and the mimics
strike killing her exactly as bill
prophesied
cage flies to the dam alone the omega is
not there and he is ambushed by an alpha
who attempts to strip him of his ability
to reset time
but cage deliberately drowns himself
cage and vertovsky infiltrate the
ministry of defense
where cage convinces brigham to give him
carter's prototype device that can
locate the omega
but they are pursued by military police
on leaving
during the ensuing car chase cage uses
the device and discovers the omega is
under the louvre pyramid
in paris cage is seriously injured
during capture
and wakes up in a hospital to find he
has been given a blood transfusion and
has lost the ability to loop time
vartovsky frees cage and they recruit j
squad to help destroy the omega before
the invasion begins
they fly to paris where the soldiers
sacrifice themselves so that kage and
vertovsky can reach the louvre
before luring away an alpha standing
between them and the submerged omega
vertovsky kisses cage to thank him for
getting her as far as he did
when the alpha kills vertovsky and
mortally wounds cage he manages to drop
a belt of grenades that destroys the
omega
killing the alpha and the mimics as a
dying cage floats down into the omega's
blood
he loops again and awakens two days
earlier on route to his original meeting
with brigham
prior to the udf invasion of france but
this time he awakens in an alternative
history
where the mimics are weak and helpless
because the all-powerful omega no longer
exists as he drives to heathrow
when he arrives he sees that all of j
squad are alive preparing for what will
presumably be a much easier invasion
he later finds vertovsky who doesn't
recognize him
and greets him as coldly as she did in
previous loops cage laughs in late
2009 three arts entertainment purchased
the rights to the japanese novel and
sold a spec script to the american
studio warner brothers the studio
produced edge of tomorrow with the
involvement of three yards
the novel's publisher viz media an
australian production company
village roadshow filming began in late
taking place in england at wb studios in
leaves done
outside london and other locations such
as london's trafalgar square and the
coastal sunton sands
a total of nine companies handled the
visual effects
production began at leavesden studios
near london which warner brothers had
purchased as a permanent studio site
wb had been renting space there for its
production of the harry potter films but
had been leaving the sets up permanently
for nearly a decade and eventually chose
to make the site semi-permanent the
parts with tom cruise in the opening
scene were filmed in lehman's editing
room
with the actor doing his own makeup and
hair leading the director to say it may
be the most independent thing i've ever
done though lehman intended to film the
beach battle on location
the studio instead had a beach set built
at the studio site the set was
surrounded by chromicky green screens
which the visual effects artists later
used to extend the beach with plates
shot at saunton sands in north devon it
was intended for the battle scenes to be
reminiscent of coastal battles during
world war ii such as the invasion of
normandy and the battle of dunkirk
lehmann said filming took place seven
days a week using two crews to film 20
days in addition to what had originally
been scheduled
the crew struggled with changeable
british weather since the film was
supposed to be set in one day and had to
maintain the same weather
nine companies handled the visual
effects for edge of tomorrow under vfx
supervisor nick davis davis worked with
the crew of the third floor on the
film's pre-visualization
process sony pictures image works spi
worked on the first two acts of the film
and created over 400 shots
including photorealistic environments
battle scenes
and computer-generated creatures and
characters one major shot involved
covering london heathrow airport with
military troops
vehicles and aircraft spi split some of
the work with rodeo fx
cinesai joined late in the production
and developed 221 shots for 10 key
sequences
with 189 appearing in the final cut edge
of tomorrow initiated its theatrical run
in several territories on may 28
2014 and rolled out to a total of 28
territories for its opening weekend of
may 30th to june 1st
2014 it grossed 20.1 million on its
opening weekend for the second weekend
of june 6 to 8
2014 it was released in 36 additional
territories edge of tomorrow grossed
100.2 million
in north america and 270.3 million
dollars in other territories for a
worldwide total of 370.5 million dollars
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel thank you for watching